docs: new guide for message validation (#1005)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/guides/message-validation.md

Kafka ->> Consumer: Recieves message
Consumer ->> Schema Registry: Validate message schema
Schema Registry ->> Consumer: Return validation result
```

With the Schema Registry in place, the producer first talks to the Schema Registry and checks if the schema of the message it wants to send is available before sending it to the broker. If it cannot locate the schema, it registers it in the Schema Registry. Then the producer sends a message to the broker prefixed with a unique schema ID. When the consumer processes this message, it will communicate with the Schema Registry using the schema ID obtained from the producer. If there is a schema mismatch, the Schema Registry will throw an error, informing the producer that it violates the schema agreement.

AsyncAPI is not directly involved in validation based on the Schema Registry. The good thing is that you do not have to duplicate schemas in your AsyncAPI document stored in Schema Registry. You can reference schemas from Schema Registry in your AsyncAPI documents.
Here's an example of an AsyncAPI document where you can see both `schemaFormat` and `payload` referenced from the Schema Registry:
```yml

> asyncapi: 2.5.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
asyncapi: 2.6.0
```

Kindly update this to latest version.

    EGV -->|Yes| BR[Broker]
    EGV --- |No| INV{Fail when invalid?}
    INV -->|Yes| ERR[/Fail/] -- Produce request errored --> PR
    INV -->|No| BR
```
The AsyncAPI document is important because payload schemas are taken from it, and messages are validated against it in your application.
You can spin up the AsyncAPI gateway using an AsyncAPI file. All the messages are forwarded to a WebSocket endpoint; if the message/payload is invalid, it includes a validation error message.

### Schema Registry validation
Producers and consumers do not communicate with each other directly; rather, information transfer happens via Kafka. At the same time, the consumer still needs to know the type of data the producer is sending. Imagine if the producer starts sending bad data to Kafka or if the data type of your data gets changed. We need a way to have a common data type that must be agreed upon.

This is where Schema Registry comes into play. It is an application that runs outside your Kafka protocol and handles schema distribution to producers and consumers by storing a copy of the schema in its local cache and validating them in Kafka.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram

> Producer ->> Schema Registry: Validate message schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Producer ->> Schema Registry: Register/checks message schema
```

> Schema Registry ->> Producer: Return validation result

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Schema Registry ->> Producer: Return registration result
```

Producer ->> Kafka: Publish message
Kafka ->> Consumer: Recieves message
Consumer ->> Schema Registry: Validate message schema
Schema Registry ->> Consumer: Return validation result
```

> With the Schema Registry in place, the producer first talks to the Schema Registry and checks if the schema is available before sending the data to Kafka. If it cannot locate the schema, it registers and caches it in the Schema Registry. When the producer receives the schema, it sends it to Kafka prefixed with a unique schema ID. When the consumer processes this message, it will communicate with the Schema Registry using the schema ID obtained from the producer. If there is a schema mismatch, the Schema Registry will throw an error, informing the producer that it violates the schema agreement.

Reviewer 2: a small suggestion to make it more technically accurate

```suggestion
With the Schema Registry in place, the producer first talks to the Schema Registry and checks if the schema of the message it wants to send is available before sending it to the broker. If it cannot locate the schema, it registers it in the Schema Registry. Then the producer sends a message to the broker prefixed with a unique schema ID. When the consumer processes this message, it will communicate with the Schema Registry using the schema ID obtained from the producer. If there is a schema mismatch, the Schema Registry will throw an error, informing the producer that it violates the schema agreement.
```

you can remove below state diagram 👇🏼  as the sequence diagram you have above is excellent! and the state diagram is anyway not valid.

    EGV -->|Yes| BR[Broker]
    EGV --- |No| INV{Fail when invalid?}
    INV -->|Yes| ERR[/Fail/] -- Produce request errored --> PR
    INV -->|No| BR
```
The AsyncAPI document is important in this case because payload schemas are taken from it and messages as validated against it in your application.
You can spin up the AsyncAPI gateway using an AsyncAPI file. All the messages are forwarded to a WebSocket endpoint; if the message/payload is invalid, it includes a validation error message.

### Validation handled by the broker
As producers and consumers do not communicate with each other directly, but rather information transfer happens via Kafka topic. At the same time, the consumer still needs to know the type of data the producer is sending. Imagine if the producer starts sending bad data to Kafka or if the data type of your data gets changed. We need a way to have a common data type that must be agreed upon.

That’s where Schema Registry comes into the picture. It is an application that resides outside of your Kafka cluster and handles the distribution of schemas to the producer and consumer by storing a copy of schema in its local cache.

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what text should be mapped to what diagram. So I see one diagram, then text that I think is about it, but then there is another diagram.

maybe the other diagram should be removed and the new one you added should be followed. I assume you wanted to replicate this https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/1005/files#r1045172876 in simplified way. Then let's go this direction, but at the moment it is not 100% accurate, I mean diagram do not match the behaviour you describe

Author: I'll try making a better one

Author: https://mermaid.ink/img/pako:eNqNkk9rAjEQxb_KMGdD77m19WJbtLh6C8iQRLu4m5T8EWTZ724SqkvTWnpLMr_3Mm-YAaVVGjnKjryft3Rw1AsDoFqnZWitgc1Tvpc6NPJD97TWh9YHd4YhVwDYibqogcPjydmHl2a1zO_jJHt3VkWpnb8KFAVKvC92i3mFP1vjY_9v_JX2RxqqxyzZXQW7xfLv-mq7mYAqJDBm4Sf_G2kZgynsreO7preg39Bp9Ou3u7_U-TJYBlGc6yoU3zpCQYsIZ5ja6KlVaRXKJASGBGqBPB0VuaNAYcbEUQy2ORuJPLioZxg_k6_-2hzke-q8Hi8878o2?type=png

I'm not able to get it right in mermaid

Reviewer 3: @derberg ⬆️ 😬 help? hehe

Reviewer 3: @starlightknown can you also add here a link to the mermaidJS editor with your markdown or put it in a code block here? I think that will help Lukasz help you faster too ✌🏽

Author: I'm not able to find the markdown now. Everytime I open it disappears unless it's the same link and now it's lost. I think we can proceed with the previous diagram and remove this new one as one diagram is enough to explain and that is well done already @alequetzalli what do you think?

Reviewer 3: I already lost track of which diagram we're going with 😂 

sounds good, I will let Lukasz tell you if the diagram passes 👍

graph LR
    A([Producer]) --->|send schemaID| B(Schema Registry) & C{Kafka Cluster}--->|recieve schemaID| D([Consumer])
```
With the schema registry in place, the producer first talks to the schema registry and checks if the schema is available before sending the data to Kafka. If it cannot locate the schema, it registers and caches it in the schema registry. When the producer receives the schema,to sends it to Kafka prefixed with a unique schema ID. When the consumer processes this message, it will communicate with the schema registry using the schema ID obtained from the producer. If there is a schema mismatch, the schema registry will throw an error, informing the producer that it is violating the schema agreement.

```mermaid

> stateDiagram-v2

Reviewer 2: remember to change it into `graph TD` like others

Author: it's giving error when I did that

Reviewer 3: @starlightknown Please add a comment showing @derberg the error message. 😄 It is not helpful to him if you only tell him you get an error; he (we) needs to see the error to help you troubleshoot.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74637789/207508201-71046e12-3cb6-4b51-9899-9fc4123f94d9.png)

**original**

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74637789/207508388-5007a053-9f29-4a04-b1ef-ab7555689b35.png)

**with graph TD**

Reviewer 2: better share a link so I can try in mermaid.

anyway, errors happen as the syntax of `stateDiagram` is not the same as `graph`, so it is not enough to just change the name

Reviewer 2: look what I got from https://chat.openai.com/chat

my question was: `generate for me mermaid.js graph diagram that explains how schema validation works in kafka with schema registry`

answer is mindblowing:
> I would only change `Retrieve message` to `Receive message` and explanation that consumer receives and not retrieves message

Here is an example of a mermaid.js graph diagram that explains how schema validation works in Kafka with the Schema Registry:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
Producer ->> Schema Registry: Validate message schema
Schema Registry ->> Producer: Return validation result

Producer ->> Kafka: Publish message
Kafka ->> Consumer: Retrieve message
Consumer ->> Schema Registry: Validate message schema
Schema Registry ->> Consumer: Return validation result
```

Explanation:

1. The producer sends the message schema to the Schema Registry to be validated.
1. The Schema Registry returns the validation result to the producer.
1. If the schema is valid, the producer publishes the message to Kafka.
1. The consumer retrieves the message from Kafka.
1. The consumer sends the message schema to the Schema Registry to be validated.
1. The Schema Registry returns the validation result to the consumer.

This diagram shows how the Schema Registry is used to validate the schemas of messages being produced and consumed in Kafka. The producer sends the message schema to the Schema Registry for validation before publishing the message to Kafka, and the consumer does the same before processing the message. This helps ensure that the messages being exchanged between producers and consumers conform to the agreed-upon schema, which can help prevent errors and improve data integrity.

![Screenshot 2022-12-21 at 11 43 32](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6995927/208886712-692f98d6-b6ba-4045-aa94-48746a45c473.png)

Reviewer 2: after another run it said `Consume message` instead of `Retrieve message`

Author: Very interesting, I think retrieve fits more? Because consumer consumes message is a bit general ig

Reviewer 2: also, I was wrong, I always thought that is it broker that communicates with schema reqistry, but it is producers and consumer responsibility, so we should rename section from `Validation handled by the broker` to `Validation using Schema Registry`

Reviewer 2: alternative answer from openAPI that is much shorter:

```mermaid
graph LR
A[Producer] --> B(Kafka Broker)
B --> C[Consumer]
C --> D{Does the schema match?}
D -- Yes --> E[Process message]
D -- No --> F[Discard message]
```

Here's what each component does:

* Producer: This is the component that produces messages and sends them to the Kafka broker.
* Kafka Broker: This is the component that receives messages from the producer and stores them in Kafka topics.
* Consumer: This is the component that reads messages from Kafka topics and processes them.
* Schema Registry: This is a component that stores schemas for messages and enables schema validation.

When a producer sends a message to the Kafka broker, the broker stores the message in the appropriate topic. When a consumer reads the message, it checks the message's schema against the schema stored in the schema registry. If the schema matches, the consumer processes the message. If the schema does not match, the consumer discards the message.

Reviewer 2: > Very interesting, I think retrieve fits more? Because consumer consumes message is a bit general ig

Retrieve suggests (at least for me non native speaker) that consumer communicates with broker to read message, but in fact it is broker that sends a message, so consumer receives/consumes it

Author: > also, I was wrong, I always thought that is it broker that communicates with schema reqistry, but it is producers and consumer responsibility, so we should rename section from `Validation handled by the broker` to `Validation using Schema Registry`

ah actually we did this heading before and changed it again XD I'll fix it

Author: so shall we go with the longer version of the diagram or the shorter one from openapi? I feel like the first one shows more in detail about what's happening in between the schema registry, producer, consumer. The second one is similar to the diagram which is already present in the guide now.

    Producer --> Broker : messages
    Producer --> Fail : error
    Broker --> Schema_registry : validation request
    Schema_registry --> consumer : valid message
    Schema_registry --> Fail : invalid message
```

> Broker validation can also be implemented using other methods. AsyncAPI is not involved in validation here but the schemas that are stored in Schema registry can be referenced from AsyncAPI documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI is not directly involved in validation based on Schema Registry. The good thing is that you do not have to duplicate in your AsyncAPI document the schemas that are stored in Schema Registry. You can reference schemas from Schema Registry in your AsyncAPI documents.
```

> Here's an example of AsyncAPI document where you can see `schemaFormat` and `payload` referenced from Schema Registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example of AsyncAPI document where you can see `schemaFormat` and `payload` referenced from Schema Registry:
```

```yml

> asyncapi: 2.0.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
asyncapi: 2.5.0
```

---

> title: Messages validation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Message validation
```

> description: This guide explains different use cases for message validation using AsyncAPI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: This guide explains different use cases for AsyncAPI message validation.
```

weight: 120
---

> 

Reviewer 3: Heyo @starlightknown, I'm noticing a discrepancy in whether or not `schema registry` is capitalized. 

Please go through this entire doc again and fix all mentions of `Schema Registry` by capitalizing them. ✌🏽

## Introduction

> This guide explains different concepts of validating messages. You will also learn what role AsyncAPI documents play in validation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide explains different concepts of validating AsyncAPI messages. You will also learn what role AsyncAPI documents play in validation.
```

## Message validation

> To understand message validation, we must first understand the basic components involved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To understand AsyncAPI message validation, we must first understand the basic components involved.
```

> - Producer: The producer is responsible for producing messages.
> - Consumer: The consumer is responsible for getting the producer's messages.
> - Broker: The broker acts as a bridge between the consumer and the producer because messages travel through the broker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Producer: responsible for producing messages.
- Consumer: responsible for getting the producer's messages.
- Broker: acts as a bridge between the consumer and the producer because messages travel through the broker.
```

Message validation can occur in different places in your system. This guide highlights three of those:

> - Both producers and consumers can do validation internally in runtime.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Both producers and consumers can do validation internally during runtime.
```

> - Validation of the message can be handled by API Gateway

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- API Gateway can handle message validation.
```

- Validation of messages can be a native solution implemented by the schema registry.
Because consumers and producers cannot communicate directly, the AsyncAPI file dictates what should be included in the payload when a service produces a message. The AsyncAPI document also tells the consumer about the message's properties.
Let's further break down how validation works for all.

> ### Validation in runtime

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Runtime validation
```

Messages produced and consumed are both required for runtime message validation. The AsyncAPI document should include descriptions of payload schemas so that you can read them in your application and validate messages that are consumed and produced by the application.

Before messages reach the consumer, runtime validation ensures that any errors are resolved and valid messages are sent to your application.

> An example implementation of message validation in runtime is [asyncapi-validator](https://github.com/WaleedAshraf/asyncapi-validator) library that enables you to validate messages produced/consumed in your application against schemas provided in your AsyncAPI document.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An example implementation of message validation in runtime is the [asyncapi-validator](https://github.com/WaleedAshraf/asyncapi-validator) library that enables you to validate messages produced/consumed in your application against schemas provided in your AsyncAPI document.
```

> Check out the Message validation in the runtime() tutorial if you want to get your hands dirty with message validation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Check out the message validation in the runtime tutorial if you want to get your hands dirty with message validation. 
```

This mentions the `runtime tutorial` so please add a link to it. (check your pr and see the file name to help you identify the link.)  

Also, please reference the actual tutorial title here and fix the mention of `runtime tutorial`. 😄

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Producer
    G[Message produced] -->|Message| B{Is Message valid?}
    B -->|No| A[Logs]
    end
    B -->|Yes| C[Broker]
    C -->|Message| E{Is Message valid?}
    subgraph Consumer
    E -->|No| F[Logs]
    E -->|Yes| H[Message consumed]
    end
```

> ### Validation in a gateway

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Gateway validation
```

> A gateway intercepts all incoming messages and routes them through the middleware and handler pipelines. The gateway sits between the producer and the broker. The messages are routed through the gateway first, and the gateway determines whether the message is valid. If the message is invalid, it displays an error and is not forwarded to the broker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A gateway intercepts all incoming messages and routes them through the middleware and handler pipelines. The gateway sits between the producer and the broker. First, the messages are routed through the gateway, and then the gateway determines whether the message is valid. If the message is invalid, it displays an error and is not forwarded to the broker.
```

An example implementation of message validation in a gateway is the [AsyncAPI gateway](https://github.com/asyncapi/event-gateway). It intercepts all incoming messages moving them into a pipeline of middlewares and handlers such as message validation. You can use a Kafka consumer/producer[(kcat)](https://github.com/edenhill/kcat), a broker, and a simple WebSocket to run the AsyncAPI gateway in your machine.

> Check out an [AsyncAPI file demo with Studio.](https://studio.asyncapi.com/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asyncapi/event-gateway/master/deployments/k8s/event-gateway-demo/event-gateway-demo.asyncapi.yaml)

Reviewer 3: "Check out an AsyncAPI file demo with Studio."

Why? How is this related to the gateway validation topic? Or the previously mentioned Kafka protocol?

Let's expand this sentence and explain why this demo file is relevant in this section.

<Remember>
Currently, only the Kafka protocol is supported.
</Remember>

```mermaid
graph TD
    PR[Producer]-- Message --- EG[AsyncAPI Event-Gateway]
    EG -- Message --- EGV{Is Message valid?}
    EGV -->|Yes| BR[Broker]
    EGV --- |No| INV{Fail when invalid?}
    INV -->|Yes| ERR[/Fail/] -- Produce request errored --> PR
    INV -->|No| BR
```

> The AsyncAPI document is important in this case because payload schemas are taken from it and messages as validated against it in your application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI document is important because payload schemas are taken from it, and messages are validated against it in your application.
```

You can spin up the AsyncAPI gateway using an AsyncAPI file. All the messages are forwarded to a WebSocket endpoint; if the message/payload is invalid, it includes a validation error message.

> ### Validation using Schema Registry

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Schema Registry validation
```

> As producers and consumers do not communicate with each other directly, but rather information transfer happens via Kafka. At the same time, the consumer still needs to know the type of data the producer is sending. Imagine if the producer starts sending bad data to Kafka or if the data type of your data gets changed. We need a way to have a common data type that must be agreed upon.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Producers and consumers do not communicate with each other directly; rather, information transfer happens via Kafka. At the same time, the consumer still needs to know the type of data the producer is sending. Imagine if the producer starts sending bad data to Kafka or if the data type of your data gets changed. We need a way to have a common data type that must be agreed upon.
```

> This is where Schema Registry comes into play. It is an application that runs outside of your Kafka and handles schema distribution to producers and consumers by storing a copy of the schema in its local cache and validating them in Kafka.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is where Schema Registry comes into play. It is an application that runs outside your Kafka protocol and handles schema distribution to producers and consumers by storing a copy of the schema in its local cache and validating them in Kafka.
```

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
Producer ->> Schema Registry: Validate message schema
Schema Registry ->> Producer: Return validation result

Producer ->> Kafka: Publish message
Kafka ->> Consumer: Recieves message
Consumer ->> Schema Registry: Validate message schema
Schema Registry ->> Consumer: Return validation result
```

> With the schema registry in place, the producer first talks to the schema registry and checks if the schema is available before sending the data to Kafka. If it cannot locate the schema, it registers and caches it in the schema registry. When the producer receives the schema,to sends it to Kafka prefixed with a unique schema ID. When the consumer processes this message, it will communicate with the schema registry using the schema ID obtained from the producer. If there is a schema mismatch, the schema registry will throw an error, informing the producer that it is violating the schema agreement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the schema registry in place, the producer first talks to the schema registry and checks if the schema is available before sending the data to Kafka. If it cannot locate the schema, it registers and caches it in the schema registry. When the producer receives the schema, it sends it to Kafka prefixed with a unique schema ID. When the consumer processes this message, it will communicate with the schema registry using the schema ID obtained from the producer. If there is a schema mismatch, the schema registry will throw an error, informing the producer that it violates the schema agreement.
```

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    Producer --> Broker : messages
    Producer --> Fail : error
    Broker --> Schema_registry : validation request
    Schema_registry --> consumer : valid message
    Schema_registry --> Fail : invalid message
```

> AsyncAPI is not directly involved in validation based on Schema Registry. The good thing is that you do not have to duplicate in your AsyncAPI document the schemas that are stored in Schema Registry. You can reference schemas from Schema Registry in your AsyncAPI documents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI is not directly involved in validation based on the Schema Registry. The good thing is that you do not have to duplicate schemas in your AsyncAPI document stored in Schema Registry. You can reference schemas from Schema Registry in your AsyncAPI documents.
```

> Here's an example of AsyncAPI document where you can see `schemaFormat` and `payload` referenced from Schema Registry:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here's an example of an AsyncAPI document where you can see both `schemaFormat` and `payload` referenced from the Schema Registry:
```

```yml
asyncapi: 2.5.0
info:
  title: Example with Avro
  version: 0.1.0
channels:
  example:
    publish:
      message:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        payload:
          $ref: 'https://example.europe-west3.gcp.confluent.cloud/subjects/test/versions/1/schema'
```

---

> <DocsButton
>   suggestions={[
>     {
>       href: '/docs/guides/validate',
>       title: 'Validate AsyncAPI Documents',
>       type:'back',
>     },
>     {
>       href: '/docs/reference',
>       title: 'Reference - Overview',
>       type:'next',
>     }
>   ]}
> />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

@starlightknown Can you please remove this from Doc page as we got automation regarding Prev and Next Button?

Reviewer 3: thank you for helping spread the word of this change @akshatnema, appreciate the help 😄

Author: shall I remove it for all?

Reviewer 3: Yes @starlightknown, go ahead and remove your previous/next buttons in all of your PRs because this new improvement @akshatnema  made so buttons will now be automated 🌟

---

> title: Validate messages

Reviewer 2: if it is guide maybe title should be in a form of `Messages validation` or `Validation of messages` ?

> title: Validate Messages/Events

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Validate messages
```

> title: Validate Messages/Events in runtime

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Validate Messages/Events
```

> description: This guide explains different use cases for message (event) validation using AsyncAPI.

Reviewer 2: regarding mentioning `event` I have the same opinion as in another PR

> description: This guide explains different use cases for messages/events validation using AsyncAPI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: This guide explains different use cases for message (event) validation using AsyncAPI.
```

weight: 120
---

# Introduction

> This guide will teach you how to validate the messages in runtime after creating your application using AsyncAPI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide explains different concepts of validating messages. You will also learn what role AsyncAPI documents play in validation.
```

it is not only about runtime validation, as see there is gateway and broker validation

> In this guide, you will learn how to validate the messages in in runtime after creating your application using AsyncAPI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide will teach you how to validate the messages in runtime after creating your application using AsyncAPI.
```

# Message validation

> In order to understand message validation, we need to first understand the basic components involved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To understand message validation, we must first understand the basic components involved.
```

> - Producer: The producer is responsible for producing the messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Producer: The producer is responsible for producing messages.
```

- Consumer: The consumer is responsible for getting the producer's messages.

> - Broker: The broker acts as a bridge in between the consumer and the producer. The messages travel through the broker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Broker: The broker acts as a bridge between the consumer and the producer because messages travel through the broker.
```

> Validation can be done at producer and consumer. Consumer side validation can happen by discarding invalid messages based on parameters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Both producers and consumers can do validation. Consumer-side validation happens by discarding invalid messages based on provided parameters.
```

> The consumer and producer cannot communicate directly and here AsyncAPI file tells what should be included in the payload when a service produces a message and also tells the consumer about the properties in the message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because consumers and producers cannot communicate directly, the AsyncAPI file dictates what should be included in the payload when a service produces a message. The AsyncAPI file also tells the consumer about the message's properties.
```

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    Producer --> Broker : messages
    Producer --> Fail : error
    Broker --> Consumer : valid message
    Broker --> Fail : invalid message
```

> To validate AsyncAPI messages (events), we have two options: [AsyncAPI schema validator](https://github.com/WaleedAshraf/asyncapi-validator) validates your messages against your AsyncAPI schema, and [AsyncAPI event gateway](https://github.com/asyncapi/event-gateway) validates messages on a gateway, before they reach the app. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To validate AsyncAPI messages (events), we have two options: 
- [AsyncAPI schema validator](https://github.com/WaleedAshraf/asyncapi-validator): validates your messages against your AsyncAPI schema 
- [AsyncAPI event gateway](https://github.com/asyncapi/event-gateway): validates messages on a gateway before they reach the app. 
```

Let's further break down how validation works for both.

## AsyncAPI schema validation
The [AsyncAPI schema validator](https://github.com/WaleedAshraf/asyncapi-validator) is a message validator for AsyncAPI schema. 

### `messageId` validation method

> The messageId is defined in [AsyncAPI Schema v2.4.0](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v2.4.0#messageObject).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `messageId` is defined in [AsyncAPI Schema v2.4.0](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v2.4.0#messageObject).
```

<CodeBlock>
`.validateByMessageId(key, payload)`
</CodeBlock>

1. Create an AsyncAPI document:
<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{`cat <<EOT >> asyncapi.yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: User Events
  version: 1.0.0
channels:
  user-events:
    description: user related events
    publish:
      message:
        name: UserDeletedMessage
        x-custom-key: UserDeleted
        payload:
          type: object
          properties:
            userEmail:
              type: string
            userId:
              type: string
              EOT`}
</CodeBlock>

2. Validate incoming MQTT messages by loading the AsyncAPI schema definition via the `fromSource` method. 

<CodeBlock>
{`const AsyncApiValidator = require('asyncapi-validator')
let va = await AsyncApiValidator.fromSource('./api.yaml')
// validate messageId 'UserRemoved'
va.validateByMessageId('UserRemoved', {
  userId: '123456789',
  userEmail: 'alex@mail.com',
})`}
</CodeBlock>

## AsyncAPI gateway validation

> All incoming messages are intercepted by the AsyncAPI gateway and routed through middleware and handler pipelines.
> The AsyncAPI gateway sits between the producer and the broker. The messages are routed through the gateway first, and the gateway determines whether the message is valid. If the message is invalid, it displays an error and is not forwarded to the broker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI gateway intercepts all incoming messages and routes them through the middleware and handler pipelines. The AsyncAPI gateway sits between the producer and the broker. The messages are routed through the gateway first, and the gateway determines whether the message is valid. If the message is invalid, it displays an error and is not forwarded to the broker.
```

<Remember>
Currently, only the Kafka protocol is supported.
</Remember>

```mermaid
graph TD
    PR[Producer]-- Message --- EG[AsyncAPI Event-Gateway]
    EG -- Message --- EGV{Is Message valid?}
    EGV -->|Yes| BR[Broker]
    EGV --- |No| INV{Fail when invalid?}
    INV -->|Yes| ERR[/Fail/] -- Produce request errored --> PR
    INV -->|No| BR
```

> You can spin up AsyncAPI gateway using AsyncAPI file. All the messages are forwarded to a websocket endpoint and in case the message/payload is invalid, it will include validation error message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can spin up the AsyncAPI gateway using an AsyncAPI file. All the messages are forwarded to a WebSocket endpoint; if the message/payload is invalid, it includes a validation error message.
```

You can spin up the AsyncAPI gateway using an AsyncAPI file. All the messages are forwarded to a WebSocket endpoint; if the message/payload is invalid, it includes a validation error message.

### UseCase

> You can use Kafka consumer/producer[(kcat)](https://github.com/edenhill/kcat) ,a broker and a simple websocket to run AsyncAPI gateway in your machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use a Kafka consumer/producer[(kcat)](https://github.com/edenhill/kcat), a broker, and a simple WebSocket to run the AsyncAPI gateway in your machine.
```

> You can use Kafka consumer/producer((kcat))[https://github.com/edenhill/kcat] ,a broker and a simple websocket to run AsyncAPI gateway in your machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use Kafka consumer/producer((kcat))[https://github.com/edenhill/kcat], a broker, and a simple WebSocket to run the AsyncAPI gateway in your machine.
```

type: object
properties:
  lumens:
    type: integer
    minimum: 0
    description: Light intensity measured in lumens.
  sentAt:
    type: s
    format: date-time
    description: Date and time when the message was sent.
 ```

>  Here the expected payload `lightMeasured` is an integer.
>  If producer sends a message with type boolean, a validation error will be included in the message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here the expected payload `lightMeasured` is an integer. A validation error will be included if the producer sends a message with the type boolean.
```

 ```
 "_asyncapi_eg_validation_error": "{\"ts\":\"2021-12-20T11:33:26.583143572Z\",\"errors\":[\"lumens: Invalid type. Expected: integer, given: boolean\"]}",
 ```
## Native broker validation

> Native broker Validation enables the broker to verify that message produced to a consumer is using a valid schema ID in Schema Registry that is registered in your environment. If it is valid, messages are allowed to consumer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Native broker validation enables the broker to verify that messages produced by a consumer use a valid schema ID in the Schema Registry of your environment. If it is valid, messages are passed on to the consumer.
```

 
```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    Producer --> Broker : messages
    Producer --> Fail : error
    Broker --> Schema_registry : validation request
    Schema_registry --> consumer : valid message
    Schema_registry --> Fail : invalid message
```

Native broker validation can also be implemented using methods other than AsyncAPI. AsyncAPI will still work even if your payload is stored somewhere other than the schema registry; you don't need to create separate applications.

# Additional Resources

> - AsyncAPI file and demo can be opened with [Studio.](https://studio.asyncapi.com/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asyncapi/event-gateway/master/deployments/k8s/event-gateway-demo/event-gateway-demo.asyncapi.yaml)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Check out an [AsyncAPI file demo with Studio.](https://studio.asyncapi.com/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asyncapi/event-gateway/master/deployments/k8s/event-gateway-demo/event-gateway-demo.asyncapi.yaml)
```

> - You can check out other AsyncAPI validators [here](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools#validators)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Check out other [AsyncAPI validators](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools#validators)
```

Hey Karuna, for **accessibility** you should never use anchor text that does not indicate to screenreaders where that link will take a user. 

Examples to avoid:
- here
- click here
- read more
- this
- etc.

Author: Understood, thank you!

---

<DocsButton
  suggestions={[
    {
      href: '/docs/guides/validate',
      title: 'Validate AsyncAPI Documents',
      type:'back',
    },
    {
      href: '/docs/reference',

>       title: 'Overview',

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      title: 'Reference - Overview',
```

Reviewer 3: yooo, pingy pongo, Miss Devi @starlightknown 😄⬆️⬆️

Reviewer 3: yo 📢

---
title: Validate messages
description: This guide explains different use cases for message (event) validation using AsyncAPI.
weight: 120
---

# Introduction
This guide will teach you how to validate the messages in runtime after creating your application using AsyncAPI.

# Message validation
To understand message validation, we must first understand the basic components involved.
- Producer: The producer is responsible for producing messages.
- Consumer: The consumer is responsible for getting the producer's messages.
- Broker: The broker acts as a bridge between the consumer and the producer because messages travel through the broker.

> Both producers and consumers can do validation. Consumer-side validation happens by discarding invalid messages based on provided parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both producers and consumers can do validation. Consumer-side validation happens by discarding invalid messages based on provided parameters.
```

remember that this is only true in case of runtime validation. Not sure it makes sense to mention in the intro-like

```suggestion
Message validation can occur in different places in your system. This guy highlights three of those:
- Both producers and consumers can do validation internally in runtime. 
- Validation of the message can be handled by API Gateway
- Validation of messages can be a native solution implemented by the broker.
```

> Because consumers and producers cannot communicate directly, the AsyncAPI file dictates what should be included in the payload when a service produces a message. The AsyncAPI file also tells the consumer about the message's properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because consumers and producers cannot communicate directly, the AsyncAPI file dictates what should be included in the payload when a service produces a message. The AsyncAPI document also tells the consumer about the message's properties.
```

```mermaid

> stateDiagram-v2

Reviewer 2: we should do flow diagram like in case of other diagrams as you describe a flow in system, also with some decisions on the flow

what do you think about [this](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid-live-editor/edit#pako:eNp1kMtugzAQRX_FmnXyAyxaFUIfUhtFajcRzmLKTAhKsJEfkSLg3-PWQNJFvbKOz_heu4NSE0MClcH2IL5WUomwrP-OYGM0-ZJNxC_FB1uLFYs2ctqJ5fKhH2kv0u7Nisk546mmxyGOpr_iWvfiqXjXld1FzIruz7dse5EVqdFHNqOS_Y3I_42YS2daWd9MpfM5-fk-Ob8Fvs7PKuMk3drBAsJNDdYUPqn7wRLcgRuWkIQtoTlKkGoInm8JHedUO20g2ePJ8gLQO_15USUkzniepFWNoWozWsMVuu6AEg)

It clearly indicates that validation happens in scope of producer or consumer

Author: yep this is great, i'll replace it

    Producer --> Broker : messages
    Producer --> Fail : error
    Broker --> Consumer : valid message
    Broker --> Fail : invalid message
```

> To validate AsyncAPI messages (events), we have two options: 

Reviewer 2: there are more than 2 options and in this tutorial you describe 3 actually

I suggest you remove this sentence and links an also section `AsyncAPI schema validation`.
In previous comment I explained how you can introduce different validation methods

`AsyncAPI schema validation` and code samples from subsections are not needed. In all 3 scenarios it is all about validation of messages against schema, doesn't matter runtime or gateway.

you need 3 sections in this document:
- Validation in runtime or Validation in Consumer and/or Producer
   here you explain it with the diagram ☝🏼 and mention https://github.com/WaleedAshraf/asyncapi-validator as an example implementation, just short paragraph. you can also link to tutorial about validating messages where it is showcased. Explain that AsyncAPI document plays important role here as payload schemas are taken from AsyncAPI document as a source of truth
- Validation in a gateway (not AsyncAPI, AsyncAPI gateway is just an example, there might be others)
  here gateway diagram, and explain it is based on AsyncAPI gateway but yeah, others might be out there too. Explain that AsyncAPI document plays important role here as payload schemas are taken from AsyncAPI document as a source of truth
- Validation handled by the broker
   here "flow" diagram as well, explain that it depends on brokers implementations, that example you show is based on Kafka and Schema Registry concept. Write that AsyncAPI is not involved in validation process. But also write that payload schemas that are stored in Schema Registry can be referenced from AsyncAPI documents -> show example 

```yml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Example with Avro
  version: 0.1.0
channels:
  example:
    publish:
      message:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        payload:
          $ref: 'https://example.europe-west3.gcp.confluent.cloud/subjects/test/versions/1/schema'
```

Author: thank you for the review, I'll implement them

---
title: Messages validation
description: This guide explains different use cases for message validation using AsyncAPI.
weight: 120
---

# Introduction
This guide explains different concepts of validating messages. You will also learn what role AsyncAPI documents play in validation.

# Message validation
To understand message validation, we must first understand the basic components involved.
- Producer: The producer is responsible for producing messages.
- Consumer: The consumer is responsible for getting the producer's messages.
- Broker: The broker acts as a bridge between the consumer and the producer because messages travel through the broker.

Message validation can occur in different places in your system. This guide highlights three of those:
- Both producers and consumers can do validation internally in runtime. 
- Validation of the message can be handled by API Gateway
- Validation of messages can be a native solution implemented by the broker.

> Because consumers and producers cannot communicate directly, the AsyncAPI file dictates what should be included in the payload when a service produces a message. The AsyncAPI document also tells the consumer about the message's properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Because consumers and producers cannot communicate directly, the AsyncAPI file dictates what should be included in the payload when a service produces a message. The AsyncAPI document also tells the consumer about the message's properties.
```

you need line break after bullet list otherwise this text is part of last bullet after rendering to HTML

Let's further break down how validation works for all.

## Validation in runtime
Messages produced and consumed are both required for runtime message validation.
The AsyncAPI document should include descriptions of payload schemas so that you can read them in your application and validate messages that are consumed and produced by the application.

Before messages reach the consumer, runtime validation ensures that any errors are resolved and valid messages are sent to your application.

> The [AsyncAPI schema validator](https://github.com/WaleedAshraf/asyncapi-validator) is a message validator which validates messages produced/consumed in your application against your AsyncAPI document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example implementation of message validation in runtime is [asyncapi-validator](https://github.com/WaleedAshraf/asyncapi-validator) library that enables you to validate messages produced/consumed in your application against schemas provided in your AsyncAPI document.
```

this library is not part of asyncapi, it is one of community libraries that we just showcase as an example how runtime validation can be done

Check out the Message validation in runtime() tutorial if you want to get your hands dirty with message validation. 

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Producer
    G[Message produced] -->|Message| B{Is Message valid?}
    B -->|No| A[Logs]
    end
    B -->|Yes| C[Broker]
    C -->|Message| E{Is Message valid?}
    subgraph Consumer
    E -->|No| F[Logs]
    E -->|Yes| H[Message consumed]
    end
```

> ### `messageId` validation method

Reviewer 2: you can remove this section, it is just one of the ways someone can implement validation library, one of the ways `asyncapi-validator` is using. 

should not be part of guide that only introduces different validation architecture solutions and lists example implementations

Author: removed

The `messageId` is defined in [AsyncAPI Schema v2.4.0](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v2.4.0#messageObject).
<CodeBlock>
`.validateByMessageId(key, payload)`
</CodeBlock>

1. Create an AsyncAPI document:
<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{`cat <<EOT >> asyncapi.yaml
asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: User Events
  version: 1.0.0
channels:
  user-events:
    description: user related events
    publish:
      message:
        name: UserDeletedMessage
        x-custom-key: UserDeleted
        payload:
          type: object
          properties:
            userEmail:
              type: string
            userId:
              type: string
              EOT`}
</CodeBlock>

2. Validate incoming MQTT messages by loading the AsyncAPI schema definition via the `fromSource` method. 

<CodeBlock>
{`const AsyncApiValidator = require('asyncapi-validator')
let va = await AsyncApiValidator.fromSource('./api.yaml')
// validate messageId 'UserRemoved'
va.validateByMessageId('UserRemoved', {
  userId: '123456789',
  userEmail: 'alex@mail.com',
})`}
</CodeBlock>

> ## Validation in a gateway

Reviewer 2: I think you forgot to reference asyncapi gateway repo as example implementation

Author: added

A gateway intercepts all incoming messages and routes them through the middleware and handler pipelines. The gateway sits between the producer and the broker. The messages are routed through the gateway first, and the gateway determines whether the message is valid. If the message is invalid, it displays an error and is not forwarded to the broker.

<Remember>
Currently, only the Kafka protocol is supported.
</Remember>

```mermaid
graph TD
    PR[Producer]-- Message --- EG[AsyncAPI Event-Gateway]
    EG -- Message --- EGV{Is Message valid?}
    EGV -->|Yes| BR[Broker]
    EGV --- |No| INV{Fail when invalid?}
    INV -->|Yes| ERR[/Fail/] -- Produce request errored --> PR
    INV -->|No| BR
```
The AsyncAPI document is important in this case because payload schemas are taken from it and messages as validated against it in your application.
You can spin up the AsyncAPI gateway using an AsyncAPI file. All the messages are forwarded to a WebSocket endpoint; if the message/payload is invalid, it includes a validation error message.

> ### UseCase

Reviewer 2: is it really a use case? not just an example of how gateway works and someone can check it?
just like other section about `messageId` IMHO can be removed

Author: removed

You can use a Kafka consumer/producer[(kcat)](https://github.com/edenhill/kcat), a broker, and a simple WebSocket to run the AsyncAPI gateway in your machine.
```
type: object
properties:
  lumens:
    type: integer
    minimum: 0
    description: Light intensity measured in lumens.
  sentAt:
    type: s
    format: date-time
    description: Date and time when the message was sent.
 ```
Here the expected payload `lightMeasured` is an integer. A validation error will be included if the producer sends a message with the type boolean.
 ```
 "_asyncapi_eg_validation_error": "{\"ts\":\"2021-12-20T11:33:26.583143572Z\",\"errors\":[\"lumens: Invalid type. Expected: integer, given: boolean\"]}",
 ```
## Validation handled by the broker
As producers and consumers do not communicate with each other directly, but rather information transfer happens via Kafka topic. At the same time, the consumer still needs to know the type of data the producer is sending. Imagine if the producer starts sending bad data to Kafka or if the data type of your data gets changed. We need a way to have a common data type that must be agreed upon.

> That’s where Schema Registry comes into the picture. It is an application that resides outside of your Kafka cluster and handles the distribution of schemas to the producer and consumer by storing a copy of schema in its local cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That’s where Schema Registry comes into the picture. It is an application that resides outside of your Kafka cluster and handles the distribution of schemas to the producer and consumer by storing a copy of schema in its local cache.
```

`It is an application that resides outside of your Kafka cluster` you are sure about it? that it is outside the cluster? I'm not tbh

Author: I'm not sure but I searched about it, I found it in a blog written by someone about schema registry

Reviewer 3: can you give us a link here in this PR to the blog post you're referring you read about this? would be good to see the direct quote and confirm 😄✌🏽 @starlightknown

Author: https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/schema-registry/index.html#schemas-subjects-and-topics

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74637789/206887417-1bb322c9-ac42-41d8-9ceb-bf9fed18a37f.png)
here @alequetzalli @derberg

Reviewer 2: oh nice, thanks for sharing, then it is good from my side, pretty clear

```mermaid
graph LR
    A([Producer]) --->|send schemaID| B(Schema Registry) & C{Kafka Cluster}--->|recieve schemaID| D([Consumer])
```
With the schema registry in place, the producer first talks to the schema registry and checks if the schema is available before sending the data to Kafka. If it cannot locate the schema, it registers and caches it in the schema registry. When the producer receives the schema,to sends it to Kafka prefixed with a unique schema ID. When the consumer processes this message, it will communicate with the schema registry using the schema ID obtained from the producer. If there is a schema mismatch, the schema registry will throw an error, informing the producer that it is violating the schema agreement.

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    Producer --> Broker : messages
    Producer --> Fail : error
    Broker --> Schema_registry : validation request
    Schema_registry --> consumer : valid message
    Schema_registry --> Fail : invalid message
```

Broker validation can also be implemented using other methods. AsyncAPI is not involved in validation here but the schemas that are stored in Schema registry can be referenced from AsyncAPI documents.

> Here's an example of AsyncAPI document where you can see `schemaFormat` and `payload` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example of AsyncAPI document where you can see `schemaFormat` and `payload` referenced from Schema Registry.
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yml
```

asyncapi: 2.0.0
info:
  title: Example with Avro
  version: 0.1.0
channels:
  example:
    publish:
      message:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        payload:
          $ref: 'https://example.europe-west3.gcp.confluent.cloud/subjects/test/versions/1/schema'
```

# Additional Resources

> - Check out an [AsyncAPI file demo with Studio.](https://studio.asyncapi.com/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asyncapi/event-gateway/master/deployments/k8s/event-gateway-demo/event-gateway-demo.asyncapi.yaml)

Reviewer 2: these additional resources are kinda disconnected from other parts of doc, why not having it in section about event gateway where you will mention AsyncAPI gateway?

Author: fixed

> - Check out other [AsyncAPI validators](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools#validators)

Reviewer 2: not good resource as this is a mix of message/AsyncAPI document and other validators

Author: added asyncapi demo in gateway section and removed the last one. Any suggestions for resources? or just remove the section

Reviewer 2: I don't think there are any

---

> title: Validate Messages/Events
> description: This guide explains two ways to validate messages/events in AsyncAPI documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Validate Messages/Events in runtime
description: This guide explains different use cases for messages/events validation using AsyncAPI.
```

This should be a guide where we just explain different ways of doing things. Now it sounds like the only tools out there are `asyncapi-validator` and event gateway. The goal should not be to promote them and explain how to use them (that for example Nodejs is needed, or that `npm i` must be run. The goal is to highlight that there are many different ways people approach message validation.

you can start with a diagram showing producer-broker-producer and say "blabla validation can occur on any stage of the flow" and then:
- section: Validation inside producer and consumer -> It could start with the same diagram, but somehow marked what components are critical for that section. And you explain that validation of incoming and outgoing messages can be an integral part of the application. Your AsyncAPI file should contain descriptions of payload schemas, so you can read these in your application, and validate messages that are consumed by the application and also produced. -> and then `asyncapi-validator` comes into play, as just one example of how this could be done. That there is Nodejs library that allows you to pass AsyncAPI file to it, and get validation methods. But no need to install nodejs or the package itself, it is a guide that should just highlight one possible reference implementation. 
- section: Validation in a gateway -> It is not so important to show example AsyncAPI file. More important is to show diagram, the same that was in intro, but with additional component - event gateway (this is something you need to consult with @smoya as I do not remember if this gateway is standalone next to broker or rather a side care to the producer/consumer). And you just explain that the advantage is that validation is delegated to central component. And brought explain on our event gateway example how this could work.
- section: Native broker validation -> here another diagram, showing that validation requests go out from broker to `schema registry`. You write that this is common for Kafka broker. In such cases AsyncAPI is not part of the flow, but still plays an important role, because in AsyncAPI document you can still reference the payload schemas stored in the schema registry instead of duplicating them in AsyncAPI document -> example https://github.com/asyncapi/avro-schema-parser#use-them-on-your-asyncapi-document and you can explicitly document where is the schema registry located https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings/tree/master/kafka#server-binding-object

so a bit of refactor is needed

I'm happy to hop on a call if you need me

Author: hey, yes so is it possible to get on group call with you and @smoya ? I have questions related to studio and event gateway too plus I need some help with code snippets here.

Reviewer 4: > hey, yes so is it possible to get on group call with you and @smoya ? I have questions related to studio and event gateway too plus I need some help with code snippets here.

Just for the record, this happened today.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74637789/198028119-088e2e74-6c17-4838-9519-1d5fde882802.png)

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74637789/198028990-27a425d6-f1c4-4fd1-862f-55f921edf789.png)

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74637789/198036894-48a7fbf7-d8a3-4fe6-ac8d-ecc990b5cba1.png)

<CodeBlock language="yaml">
{`asyncapi: '2.4.0'
info:
  title: AsyncAPI Event-Gateway demo API
  version: 1.0.0-alpha
  description: This API lets users interact with an instance of the [AsyncAPI Event-Gateway](https://github.com/asyncapi/event-gateway).
defaultContentType: application/json
servers:
  asyncapi-event-gateway-demo:
    url: 'event-gateway-demo.asyncapi.com:20472'
    protocol: kafka
    description: AsyncAPI [Event-Gateway](https://github.com/asyncapi/event-gateway) demo Kafka proxy. Expected messages are based on a small portion of the [StreetLights tutorial](https://bit.ly/asyncapi).
  asyncapi-event-gateway-demo-validation:
    url: 'event-gateway-demo.asyncapi.com:5000/ws'
    protocol: ws
    description: AsyncAPI [Event-Gateway](https://github.com/asyncapi/event-gateway) demo. Subscribe for Kafka proxy message validation errors.
  asyncapi-kafka-test:
    url: 'asyncapi-kafka-test-asyncapi-8f90.aivencloud.com:20472' # Kafka with 3 brokers.
    protocol: kafka-secure
    description: AsyncAPI Kafka test broker. Private.
channels:
  event-gateway-demo:

>     description: Demo Kafka topic for asyncapi-event-gateway-demo server. Users can send their events to this topic and see how message validation happens on the fly based on this right AsyncAPI file by connecting to `event-gateway-demo-validation-events` channel (`asyncapi-event-gateway-demo-validation` ws server).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: Demo Kafka topic for asyncapi-event-gateway-demo server. Users can send their events to this topic and see how message validation happens on the fly based on this right AsyncAPI file by connecting to \`event-gateway-demo-validation-events\` channel (\`asyncapi-event-gateway-demo-validation\` ws server).
```

    x-servers: # Based on https://github.com/asyncapi/spec/pull/531
      - asyncapi-event-gateway-demo
    publish:
      message:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/lightMeasured'
  event-gateway-demo-validation-events:
    description: Validation errors are published here, so users can see how message validation happens on the fly based on this right AsyncAPI file.
    x-servers: # Based on https://github.com/asyncapi/spec/pull/531
      - asyncapi-event-gateway-demo-validation
    subscribe:
      message:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/invalidMessage'
  event-gateway-demo-validation:

>     description: Validation errors are published to and consumed from it. AsyncAPI Event-gateway is the only user of this channel. It can be consumed and exposed via `event-gateway-demo-validation-events` channel (`asyncapi-event-gateway-demo-validation` ws server).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: Validation errors are published to and consumed from it. AsyncAPI Event-gateway is the only user of this channel. It can be consumed and exposed via \`event-gateway-demo-validation-events\` channel (\`asyncapi-event-gateway-demo-validation\` ws server).
```
